Performance article (#23)
files-community/files-community.github.io: docs/articles/performance.md

# Performance settings

> To help improve performance you can use 2 settings. Both you can find in `Experimental` tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To help improve performance you can use 2 settings. Both can be found in the `Experimental` settings page.

```

**Cache files and folders**

> After every navigation Files can cache the files/folders list and use it in next navigation to the same path (in result showing the list much sooner).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After navigating to a directory, Files can cache the files/folders list and use it the next time you navigate to the same directory (this should result in the list of items loading faster).

```

**Preemptive cache parallel limit**

> To increase navigating performance even more you can set up preemptive caching. After navigation to any path the preemptive cache is going through all folders in this path and loads them into cache. This way the next navigation to any child folder will be faster.
> 
> Preloading folders is an expensive job for drive usage and also a little bit on CPU. That's why you can set parallel limit for this operations. If you set 0, the preemptive cache is turned off. For really fast drives, like NVMe, the limit can be set a lot higher (10 for example) then for hard drives.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To further increase performance when navigating to a directory, you can set up preemptive caching. After navigating to any directory, the preemptive cache will go through all the folders in this directory and save them into the cache. This can make navigating into sub directories faster.

Preemptive caching is an expensive job for both the disk and also a little bit on the CPU. This is why you can set the parallel limit for this operations. If you set it to 0, then the preemptive cache will be turned off. For faster drives, such as NVMe drives, the limit can be set higher with less of an impact on your device.
```

> # Performance settings

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Performance Settings

```

To help improve performance you can use 2 settings. Both can be found in the `Experimental` settings page.

**Cache files and folders**

After navigating to a directory, Files can cache the files/folders list and use it the next time you navigate to the same directory (this should result in the list of items loading faster).

**Preemptive cache parallel limit**

> To increase navigating performance even more you can set up preemptive caching. After navigation to any path the preemptive cache is going through all folders in this path and loads them into cache. This way the next navigation to any child folder will be faster.
> 
> Preloading folders is an expensive job for drive usage and also a little bit on CPU. That's why you can set parallel limit for this operations. If you set 0, the preemptive cache is turned off. For really fast drives, like NVMe, the limit can be set a lot higher (10 for example) then for hard drives.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To further increase performance when navigating to a directory, you can set up preemptive caching. After navigating to any directory, the preemptive cache will go through all the folders in this directory and save them into the cache. This can make navigating into sub directories faster.

Preemptive caching is an expensive job for both the disk and also a little bit on the CPU. This is why you can set the parallel limit for this operations. If you set it to 0, then the preemptive cache will be turned off. For faster drives, such as NVMe drives, the limit can be set higher with less of an impact on your device.
```
